# Asymptotic Analysis
In Asymptotic Analysis, we evaluate the performance of an algorithm in terms of input size (we don’t measure the actual running time). We calculate, how the time (or space) taken by an algorithm increases with the input size. 

- Measuring Order of Growth of time taken by a Functional Program in terms of Input Size.
- Does not depend on the Machine, Programming Language, Test Cases.
- This analysis is Algorithm specific not machine, language or test case specific.
- No need to actually implement the algorithm.
- Write steps and simply analyze if it is worth implementing or not.
- It provides theoretical estimation for the required resources of an algorithm to solve a specific computational problem.
- It is determination of amount of time and space resources required to execute an algorithm.

## Importance of Asymptotic Analysis
- To predict the behavior of an algorithm without implementing it on a specific computer.
- It is much more convenient to have simple measures for the efficiency of an algorithm than to implement the algorithm and test the efficiency every time a certain parameter in the underlying computer system changes.
- The analysis is thus only an approximation; it is not perfect.
- By analyzing different algorithms, we can compare them to determine the best one for out purpose.

## Assumptions
- All Mathematical, Comparison or any other operation always takes constant time irrespective or the input value.
- If user provides small input, inefficient code might run faster than efficient code, so it is not perfect practically.
- While analyzing, we always talk about n $\to \infty$.
- Asymptotic Analysis is not perfect, but that’s the best way available for analyzing algorithms. For example, say there are two sorting algorithms that take **_1000nLogn_** and **_2nLogn_** time respectively on a machine. Both of these algorithms are asymptotically the same (order of growth is nLogn). So, With Asymptotic Analysis, we can’t judge which one is better as we ignore constants in Asymptotic Analysis. 
- Also, in Asymptotic analysis, we always talk about input sizes larger than a constant value. It might be possible that those large inputs are never given to your software and an asymptotically slower algorithm always performs better for your particular situation. So, you may end up choosing an algorithm that is Asymptotically slower but faster for your software.
- If **_f(n) = n + 1_** and **_g(n) = 1000_**, asymptotically **_g(n)_** is better algorithm, but if user never provides n $\ge$ 999, **_f(n)_** will perform better, even if it is asymptotically slower.
- So in Asymptotic Analysis, we always take higher values of n, i.e. n $\to \infty$, so that only order of growth matters.

## Steps
- Get an expression of time taken by the code in terms of input size.
- Even if an expression is not running n times, it is running n-1 times or n/2 times, we can write it is Cn.
- Ignore Lower Order Terms.
- Ignore Leading Term Constant.
- Ex. f(n) = 2n<sup>2</sup> + n + 6, Order of Growth: n<sup>2</sup> (Quadratic)
- Ex. f(n) = 100n + 3, Order of Growth: n  (Linear)

## Comparison of Terms
### C < log log n < log n < n<sup>1/3</sup> < n<sup>1/2</sup> < n < n<sup>2</sup> < n<sup>3</sup> < n<sup>4</sup> < 2<sup>n</sup> < n<sup>n</sup>

## Order of Growth