# Order of Growth

- Order of growth refers to how the runtime or space requirement of an algorithm increases as the size of the input (denoted as n) grows.
- It is an important concept in asymptotic analysis, used to classify algorithms based on their efficiency.

## Why is it important?
- It helps compare algorithms by focusing on their most significant growth patterns.
- It is crucial for predicting the scalability and performance of algorithms as input sizes increase.

## Steps
- If we have multiple Algorithms/Solutions, we find time taken by all the solutions.
- We write the Polynomial and then we see the Order of Growth of every time equation of each Algorithm/Solution.
- The one having the least Order of Growth is said to be Efficient Algorithm.

## Proof of Concept
A function **_f(n)_** is said to be growing faster than a function **_g(n)_** if
#### $$\lim_{x\to\infty} \frac{g(n)}{f(n)} = 0 \qquad or \qquad \lim_{x\to\infty} \frac{f(n)}{g(n)} = \infty$$
f(n) and g(n) represent time taken, n $\ge$ 0 and f(n), g(n) $\ge$ 0

## Example

#### $f(n) = n^2 + n + 6$
#### $g(n) = 2n + 5$

we have to prove using,
$\lim_{x\to\infty} \frac{g(n)}{f(n)} = 0$

$$\lim_{x\to\infty} \frac{2n+5}{n^2 + n + 6}$$

divide by $n^2$

$$\lim_{x\to\infty} \frac{\frac{2}{n}+\frac{5}{n^2}}{1 + \frac{1}{n} + \frac{6}{n^2}}$$

when n tends to $\infty$

$$\lim_{x\to\infty} \frac{0+0}{1 + 0 + 0}$$

$$ = 0 $$


## Direct way to find and compare growths
- Ignore Lower Order Terms
- Ignore Leading Term Constant

### Examples
- $f(n) = 2n^2 + n + 6$, Order of growth is $n^2$ (Quadratic)
- $g(n) = 100n + 3$, Order of growth is n, (Linear)

## Comparison of Terms
### $C < \log \log n < \log n < n^{1/3} < n^{1/2} < n < n^2 < n^3 < n^4 < 2^n < n^n$
